
# Inventory Management System

The project includes development of a fully functional inventory management system
using the basic fundamental concepts of Python programming language. This inventory
management system is used for a furniture store named as “BRJ Furniture Store”. This
project controls the purchasing and vending details of different furniture products having
unique product Id, manufacturer’s name, product’s name, product quantity and its pricing
details which is provided in a text file. The detailed information about the availability of
furniture is displayed by reading/accessing the text file and suitable functions has been
defined according to the nature of transaction referred to store purchasing from a
manufacturer or vending it to a customer. The program initially displays options as “buy”
and “sell” and asks the user to choose either of the options more suitable to the user’s
preferences.
With each transaction done by the user a suitable invoice is generated which is written in
the text file. Similarly, the product quantity is increased in the text file when the store
chooses to purchase products from manufacturers and decreases when the store
chooses to vend the products. The update in the product quantity is then written in the
text file and displayed again when the user decides to transact.
The invoices are generated focusing on two case scenarios. When the store itself orders
products from different manufacturer, an invoice with the information of product Id,
manufacturer’s name, product’s name, quantity of product the store orders and its total
pricing is generated by the inventory system. Similarly, when a customer decides to buy
or the store decides to vend the products, the system asks user to input different customer
details like customer’s name, contact number, address and choices of shipping and
displays it along with the information of product’s Id, manufacturer’s name, product’s
name, quantity of product the customer decides to buy and the total cost price along with
13% VAT and shipping cost according to the customer desire. This program is built in
such a manner that it generates unique bill for each of the clients.
he above-mentioned updates in the system is beneficial and necessary for a functional
and reliable inventory system. This inventory system was developed by incorporating
different data structures, conditional statements, loops and functions with the file input
and output concepts also known as “File Handling in Python”. The system accuracy was
maintained using fundamental of exception handling in Python programming Language.


## Acknowledgements

 - [Input and Output in Python](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/input-and-output-in-python/)
 - [Python Data Structures](https://www.datacamp.com/tutorial/data-structures-python?utm_source=google&utm_medium=paid_search&utm_campaignid=19589720824&utm_adgroupid=157156376311&utm_device=c&utm_keyword=&utm_matchtype=&utm_network=g&utm_adpostion=&utm_creative=684592140434&utm_targetid=dsa-2218886984100&utm_loc_interest_ms=&utm_loc_physical_ms=9219045&utm_content=&utm_campaign=230119_1-sea~dsa~tofu_2-b2c_3-apac_4-prc_5-na_6-na_7-le_8-pdsh-go_9-nb-e_10-na_11-na&gad_source=1&gclid=CjwKCAiAtsa9BhAKEiwAUZAszUeQUPlaa_PDS7jV_9_UfWUQP-PNFhXXqPdU0DmWwD2e-VRaFK3iUhoCUkgQAvD_BwE)

 
## Tools Used

IDLE
Datetime Library in Python
Python version 3.12

